Cosmos Plan
-----------

LAST UPDATED: Oct 3rd, 2016<br/>
NOTE: The details in this plan override what is currently in the whitepaper,
and all other plans published prior.

<hr />

* Cosmos Foundation (CF) is a non-profit Switzerland Foundation. Its purpose is
  to conduct the Cosmos Atom Sale, and to contract other entities for the
  development of the Cosmos Essential Software and Services (CESS), and to help
  fostor a community about the technology.

* There will be a crowdfund for future staking tokens, called "atoms", that
  give the holder limited license to validate the Cosmos Hub and Dex. The
  proceeds of the sale will go to the CF to develop the CESS.

* ATOMS ARE NOT AN INVESTMENT, SECURITY, MEDIUM OF EXCHANGE, OR STORE OF VALUE.

* All in Bits, Inc (AIB) is a for-profit Delaware C-Corp behind Tendermint.
  The CF has contracted with AIB to develop the CESS.

* The CF has received several commitments for future token purchases.  The lead
  funder has purchased 5% of all future genesis atoms.  Strategic partners have
  purchased atoms at a discount rate of 25%.  Some other non-US and
  US-accredited prefunders who have already expressed interest in the prefund
  have purchased atoms at a discount rate of 12%.

* THE PREFUND IS CLOSED FOR THE GENERAL PUBLIC. If you have to ask about the
  prefund now, you don't qualify.  The only exception is for strategic
  partners, such as crypto exchanges, who would make ideal validators.

* The CF reserves the right to receive further funding in the future from
  strategic partners at a discount rate of up to 25%.

* Prior to Crowdfund day, the total number of atoms purchased as well as the
  total amount of prefunding received, and a pseudonymous list of distinct
  persons and entities along with their discount rates, will be published.

* The projected date of first day of the crowdfund is Q1 of 2017.

* The crowdfund will last for at most 6 weeks.  After the crowdfund, no more
  atoms will be sold by the CF (unless approved by the on-chain governance
  mechanism).

* Governance can approve proposals for the creation of new atoms. See the
  whitepaper for details on the proposed governance mechanism.

* The atoms will not be available for usage and trading until after genesis
  day, some time in Q3 2017 at the earliest.  Even after genesis day, there is
  an initial vesting period.

* Everyone's atoms will vest over a period of two years after Genesis. Unvested
  atoms cannot be transferred until vested.  Unvested atoms will vest over
  time, at a rate of 1/(24x365x2) of the account's atoms, every hour.

* In the first day of the crowdfund, the price of an atom will be $0.10.  A
  discount of 25% for strategic funders implies an atom price of $0.075.  A
  discount of 12% for prefunders implies an atom price of $0.088.

* The crowdfund will be capped at a market-cap valuation of $9M ~ $11M.
  More details will be released soon.

* After the Crowdfund, the total number of atoms sold times 1/3 is
  inflated and allocated for the CF, AIB, and the Lead Funders.

* On Genesis day, the distribution of atoms will be split between:
  * CF (10%)
  * AIB (10%)
  * Lead Funders (5%)
  * Prefunders + Crowdfunders (75%)

* Upon completion of the Crowdfund, all the atom holders, including the CF and
  AIB play the Delegation Game in a special purpose Ethereum smart contract
  (which holds no Ether).  The top 100 validators after delegation will be
  chosen as validators on Genesis.

* Every validator must participate in governance, or else become inactivated
  and eventually unbonded. Delegators who delegate atoms to such validators
  will also likewise get their delegated atoms inactivated and eventually
  unbonded.

* 1/5 of the total number of atoms will be inflated every year and distributed
  back to the bonded and active atom holders (validators and delegators) for
  their work validating and securing the ledger.

* Inactive or unbonded atom holders do not earn the inflationary atoms, and
  are thus taxed.  This makes atoms ill-suited as a medium of exchange or a
  store of value.  Instead, atoms are a tool, like Bitcoin miners are a tool.

* Bonding atoms and staking them put the atoms at risk of slashing. Validators
  must run the sanctioned consensus protocol without deviating, or risk losing
  some or all of their atoms; this requires expert ability to run secure
  servers that can't get hacked. Delegators must choose who to validate to
  wisely, or risk losing those portions of atoms delegated to the incompetent,
  malicious, or hacked validator.

* Tokens are virtual concepts on the blockchain.  All mentions of tokens, like
  atoms, as if they were physical objects, are an approximation of what they
  actually are.  As we've seen with the ETH/ETC hard-fork, political tensions
  can cause the ledger to split.  Furthermore, there is no central entity that
  is responsible for the upkeep of the blockchain.  Atoms are not a claim to
  anything or anyone, not even the Cosmos Foundation.  The software may be
  buggy, and even the theory may be flawed, causing confusion, contention, and
  even economic harm for those involved.  There are a whole host of reasons why
  atoms would make a terrible investment, especially to anyone who is new to
  the space of cryptocurrencies.

* The CF, AIB, and all funders as well as any atom token holders hold
  each other harmless for any activity arising in relation to the Cosmos
  Network.  All atom holders are free to fork, slash, and hack each other in
  accordance with the spirit of the Cosmos Constitution.

* All validators and delegators must abided by the Cosmos Constitution.

* A more fleshed out list of risks will be published soon.

* A roadmap and the constitution will be released soon.

## Definitions

**Cosmos Constitution**: A plainly written document that includes the social
contract of the Cosmos Network.  All bonded validators and delegators must
abide by the Cosomos Constitution.

**Cosmos Dex**: A distributed exchange zone that connects to the hub zone.  The
Cosmos Dex provides fast centralized matching with distributed custody of
funds.

**Cosmos Hub**: A zone that connects to many other zones.  The hub acts as a
root custodian and facilitates token movement between zones.

**Cosmos Hub Block Reward**: The blockchain will reward the Validators and
Delegators in proportion to their bonded atoms, and afterwards account for any
commissions that delegators pay to the delegated validators.  The reward will
consist of two types -- transaction fees, and inflationary atoms.  The
transction fees will be any fee collected by a validator.  In addition, there
will be inflationary atoms at a rate of 1/5 of the total number of atoms per
year.  Cosmos holders who do not put their atoms at stake by being a validator
or delegating to a validator will not receive any of the Cosmos Hub Block
Rewards.

**Cosmos Network**: Includes the Cosmos Hub, Dex, and all other connected
zones.

**Delegator**: An atom holder who puts their atoms at stake by delegating its
validating power and voting power to a validator.  They are still responsible
for voting on proposals during the vesting period.  If they don't vote they
will be penalized, but they will inherit the vote of the delegated validator.

**Governance**: An ongoing process where the bonded atom holders can vote to
ratify or reject proposals as proposed by any atom holder.  Proposals can
change preset parameters, amend the Constitution, inflate the atom supply,
and more.

**Validator**: Validators are full nodes of a Cosmos zone that have the
responsibility of committing blocks in that zone.  The Cosmos Hub will start
with 100 validator spots.  Due to the limited number of validator spots, not
everyone who has atoms can be a validator.  Instead, everyone else can bond
atoms and delegate their consensus voting power to any of the 100 validators.
Before Genesis, the Cosmos Crowdfund funders will play the Delegation Game to
determine the top 100 bonded delegates who will become the genesis validators.
Validators can lose some or all their stake if they get hacked, deviate from
the sanctioned protocol, or otherwise collude to disrupt the network. 

### Cosmos Essential Software and Services

* **Tendermint**
* **Cosmos Hub**
* **Cosmoe Dex**
* **Ethereum Peg**
* **Bitcoin Peg**
* **EVM Zone**
