## Why

We believe in the power of cryptocurrency blockchains to provide a public good,
powered by a collection of self-motivated actors governed by the rules of a
shared consensus ledger, in an environment of competition and freedom of choice.
We have learned important lessons from the successes and failures of prior
cryptocurrencies,  and have been creating innovations of our own that will
unleash a new era of speed, security, scalability, and usability.

Gnuclear is a culmination of these lessons and innovations, designed to be
extended to incorporate even future innovations, to create a cryptocurrency
platform suitable for generations to come.

## What

Gnuclear is the first proof-of-stake multi-token cryptocurrency based on proven
research in Byzantine (BFT) consensus algorithms, led by the same team that
created the Tendermint BFT consensus engine.

Gnuclear is not just a single blockchain, but a federation of many blockchains.
The Gnuclear Hub is a global top-level blockchain designed to be expandable by
securely plugging in any number of secondary blockchains, called "zones".  For
example, many Bitcoind, Geth (Ethereum), ZCash, or any future blockchain systems
can be plugged in.  These zones allow Gnuclear to scale infinitely to meet
global transaction demand.

Coins can be transferred from one zone to another, securely and quickly, without
the need for a liquid exchange between zones.  All inter-zone coin transfers go
through the Gnuclear Hub, which keeps track of the total amount of coins held by
each zone.  A new blockchain-to-blockchain communiation protocol called IBC (a
kind of virtual UDP or TCP for blockchains) is used to securely coordinate coin
transfers between the hub and zones.  Like UDP or TCP, IBC is a novel
foundational blockchain protocol that will accelerate the innovation of future
internet-of-blockchains applications.

Zones enable forward-compatibility with future blockchain systems, allowing all
cryptocurrency research to be incorporated into Gnuclear, and spurring even more
research into much needed Smart Contract research.

Thus, Gnuclear is:

* A general scaling solution for cryptocurrencies
* A platform for experimenting with new blockchain/smart-contract paradigms
* A federation of independent zones with different soft/hard fork policies
* A public platform for launching new tokens that leverage existing zones

Gnuclear is the first public blockchain powered by Tendermint's BFT consensus
algorithm.  The Tendermint open-source project was born in 2014 to address the
speed, scalability, and environmental issues of Bitcoin's proof-of-work
consensus algorithm.  By utilizing and improving upon proven BFT algorithms
developed at MIT in 1988, the Tendermint team was first to conceptually
demonstrate a proof-of-stake cryptocurrency that addresses the nothing-at-stake
problem suffered by first-gen proof-of-stake cryptocurrencies such as NXT and
BitShares.

Gnuclear is the first cryptocurrency to offer instant and provably-secure
mobile-client payment verification.  Today, practically all Bitcoin mobile
wallets use trusted servers to provide them with transaction verification.  This
is because proof-of-work requires waiting for many confirmations before a
transaction can be considered irreversibly committed.  Double-spend attacks have
already been demonstrated on services like CoinBase.  Since the Gnuclear (and
Tendermint) blockchain is designed not to fork at all, mobile wallets can
receive instant transaction confirmation, finally making trustless and practical
payments a reality on your smartphone.  This has significant ramifications for
IoT applications as well.

Gnuclear is a new delegated-proof-of-stake (DPoS) cryptocurrency.  Gnuclear
validators (who have a similar role to Bitcoin miners but instead use
cryptographic signatures to vote) are meant to be secure, dedicated machines
that are responsible for committing blocks.  Non-validators can delegate their
staking tokens (called "quarks") to any validator to earn a portion of block
fees and quark rewards, but incur the risk of getting slashed if the delegate
validator gets hacked or violates the protocol.  The proven safety guarantees of
Tendermint BFT consensus, and the collateral deposit of stakeholders (of
validators and delegators) provide provable, quantifiable security for nodes and
even mobile clients.

Gnuclear has a constitution and a governance system built in, making it a better
and more efficient DAO.  Other cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum
rely mostly on mining to poll the community for suggested upgrades, but this is
a slow process with no support for Sybil-proof coordination prior to
vote-by-mining. In Gnuclear, validators and delegators can vote on proposals
that can change preset parameters of the system automatically (such as the block
gas limit), as well as vote on amendments to a human-readible constitution that
govern the policies of the Gnuclear hub.  The constitution allows for cohesion
among the stakeholders on issues regarding issues of theft and bugs (such as
TheDAO bug), allowing for quicker and cleaner resolution.  Combined with zones
that can have their own governance body, the Gnuclear network allows for
increased user-satisfaction and freedom in policiy selection.

Gnuclear is the first second-generation cryptocurrency that is designed to
address much of the problems of first-generation cryptocurrencies, from speed
and scalability to security and governance.  By standing on the shoulders of
existing computer-science research, meticulously adhering to the best
engineering practices, and designing a system that actually addresses the very
real political problems of decentralized organizations, Gnuclear is ready to
take public cryptocurrencies to the next level.
